#  Waits (文档 ID 1376916.1)

  

|

|

 **In this Document**  

| |
[Purpose](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#PURPOSE)  
---|---  
| [Troubleshooting
Steps](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#TRBLSHOOT)  
---|---  
| [What is a 'log file sync'
wait?](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section21)  
---|---  
| [What should be collected for initial diagnosis of 'log file sync' waits
?](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section22)  
---|---  
| [What causes high waits for 'log file
sync'?](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section23)  
---|---  
| [Issues affecting LGWR's IO
Performance](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section24)  
---|---  
| [Compare the average wait time for 'log file sync' to the average wait time
for 'log file parallel
write'.](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section25)  
---|---  
|
[Recommendations](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section26)  
---|---  
| [Effect of Peaks of IO (or Bursts of IO) on 'log file sync'
waits](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section27)  
---|---  
| [Check LGWR
Traces](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section28)  
---|---  
|
[Recommendations](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section29)  
---|---  
| [Check to see if redo logs are large
enough](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section210)  
---|---  
|
[Recommendations](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section211)  
---|---  
| [Excessive Application
Commits](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section212)  
---|---  
| [Compare the average user commits and user rollbacks to user
calls](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section213)  
---|---  
|
[Recommendations](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section214)  
---|---  
| [Other Wait Events that may be
relevant](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section215)  
---|---  
| [Adaptive Log File
Sync](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section216)  
---|---  
| [Redo Synch Time
Overhead](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section217)  
---|---  
| [Known
Issues](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section218)  
---|---  
| [Other diagnostics to help analyze 'log file sync'
waits?](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section219)  
---|---  
| [Data Guard and 'Log File
Sync'](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section220)  
---|---  
| [Troubleshooting Other
Issues](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section221)  
---|---  
| [Community
Discussions](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#aref_section222)  
---|---  
|
[References](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-
state=19e52h32p_4#REF)  
---|---  
  
* * *

## Applies to:

Oracle Database - Personal Edition - Version 8.0.6.0 and later  
Oracle Database - Standard Edition - Version 8.0.6.0 and later  
Oracle Database - Enterprise Edition - Version 11.2.0.4 and later  
Information in this document applies to any platform.  

## Purpose

[](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?&id=1268927.2&cid=ocdbgeneric-
ad-%E6%96%87%E6%A1%A3-1376916.1&parent=KM-Advert&sourceId=ocdbgeneric-
ad-%E6%96%87%E6%A1%A3-1376916.1)

The purpose of this note is to help troubleshoot issues where there are
significant waits for the event 'log file sync'.

## Troubleshooting Steps

### What is a 'log file sync' wait?

When a user session commits, the session's redo information needs to be
flushed from memory to the redo logfile to make it permanent.  
  
At the time of commit, the user session will post the LGWR to write the log
buffer (containing the current unwritten redo, including this session's redo
information) to the redo log file. When the LGWR has finished writing, it will
post the user session to notify it that this has completed. The user session
waits on 'log file sync' while waiting for LGWR to post it back to confirm all
redo changes have made it safely on to disk.  
  
The time between the user session posting the LGWR and the LGWR posting the
user after the write has completed is the wait time for 'log file sync' that
the user session will show.

**NOTE:** if a sync is ongoing, other sessions that want to commit (and thus
flush log information) will also wait for the LGWR to sync and will also wait
on 'log file sync'?

### What should be collected for initial diagnosis of 'log file sync' waits ?

To initially analyse 'log file sync' waits the following information is
helpful:

  * AWR report from a similar time frame and period where 'log file sync' waits are not experienced in order to use as a baseline for reasonable performance for comparison purposes
  * AWR report when 'log file sync' waits are occurring  
Note: The 2 reports should be for between 10-30 minutes each.

  * Lgwr trace file   
The lgwr trace file will show warning messages for periods when 'log file
parallel wait' may be high

### What causes high waits for 'log file sync'?

Waits for the 'log file sync' event can occur at any stage between a user
process posting the LGWR to write redo information and the LGWR posting back
the user process after the redo has been written from the log buffer to disk
and the user process waking up.  
For more information see:

[Document:34592.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=34592.1)
WAITEVENT: "log file sync"

  
In terms of the most common causes, these are:

  * [Issues affecting LGWR's I/O Performance](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-state=19e52h32p_4#LGWRIO)
  * [Excessive Application Commits](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926&id=1376916.1&_afrWindowMode=0&_adf.ctrl-state=19e52h32p_4#COMMITS)

Details of these causes and how to troubleshoot them are outlined below:

### Issues affecting LGWR's IO Performance

The primary question we are looking to answer here is "Is LGWR slow in writing
to disk?". The following steps can assist determine whether this the case or
not.

#### Compare the average wait time for 'log file sync' to the average wait
time for 'log file parallel write'.

Wait event 'log file parallel' write is waited for by LGWR while the actual
write operation to the redo is occurring. The duration of the event shows the
time waited for the IO portion of the operation to occur. For more information
on "log file parallel write" see: :  
  

[Document:34583.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=34583.1)
WAITEVENT: "log file parallel write" Reference Note

  
Looking at this event in conjunction with "log file sync" shows how much of
the sync operation is spent on IO and also, by inference, how much processing
time is spent on the CPU.  
  
  
  
The example above shows high wait times for both 'log file sync' and 'log file
parallel write'  
  
If the proportion of the 'log file sync' time spent on 'log file parallel
write' times is high, then most of the wait time is due to IO (waiting for the
redo to be written). The performance of LGWR in terms of IO should be
examined. As a rule of thumb, an average time for 'log file parallel write'
over 20 milliseconds suggests a problem with IO subsystem.

##### Recommendations

  * Work with the system administrator to examine the filesystems where the redologs are located with a view to improving the performance of IO.
  * Do not place redo logfiles on a RAID configuration which requires the calculation of parity, such as RAID-5 or RAID-6.
  * Do not put redo logs on Solid State Disk (SSD)  
Although generally, Solid State Disks write performance is good on average,
they may endure write peaks which will highly increase waits on 'log file
sync'. (You may want to test this, as there are cases where performance is
acceptable on SSD)  
(Exception to this would be for Engineered Systems (Exadata, SuperCluster and
Oracle Database Appliance) which have been optimized to use SSDs for REDO)  
  

  * Look for other processes that may be writing to that same location and ensure that the disks have sufficient bandwidth to cope with the required capacity. If they don't then move the activity or the redo.

#### Effect of Peaks of IO (or Bursts of IO) on 'log file sync' waits

Log writer (LGWR) tends to write in small bursts of activity as opposed to a
large chunks of I/O (which is more normal). Most disks are not setup to work
well with small bursts of activity and this might cause IO waits. But since,
on average, the disks work fine (they are just not working well with the burst
of activity) I/O vendors may report that there is no issue with the disks.
This, along with other I/O on the system, may mean that rather than the I/O
performance being consistent over time, there may be a burst of higher I/O
followed by a period of lower I/O. When averaged out, the peak information is
'lost' in the mass of lower I/O numbers, but these peaks can cause a backup of
log data that needs to be written and this manifests itself as high waits for
'log file sync' but where the average waits for 'log file parallel write' are
well within normal I/O tolerences.

If you see a situation where you have high waits for 'log file sync' and the
average waits for 'log file parallel write' are well within normal I/O
tolerences, be aware that this could be because there are peaks in the I/O
that the average is not showing you. You could use something like OSWatcher
(see: [Document
301137.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=301137.1))
to identify I/O peaks and then try to correlate these with peaks in 'log file
sync' (which would occur slightly after). If you identify peaks of I/O then
work with your storage vendor to deal with the bursts of activity.

#### Check LGWR Traces

Even if the average wait for 'log file parallel write' may be in the normal
range, there may be peaks where the write time is longer and will therefore
influence waits on 'log file sync'. From 10.2.0.4, messages are written in the
LGWR trace when a write to the log file takes more than 500 ms. This is quite
a high threshold so a lack of messages does not necessarily mean there is no
problem. The messages look similar to the following:  
  

*** 2011-10-26 10:14:41.718  
Warning: log write elapsed time 21130ms, size 1KB  
(set event 10468 level 4 to disable this warning)  
  
*** 2011-10-26 10:14:42.929  
Warning: log write elapsed time 4916ms, size 1KB  
(set event 10468 level 4 to disable this warning)

  
**NOTE** : Peaks like the following may not have a high influence on the 'log
file parallel wait' if they are far between. However , if 100s of sessions are
waiting for the 'log file parallel wait' to complete, the total wait for 'log
file sync' can be high as the wait time will be multiplied for the 100s of
sessions. Therefore it is worth investigating the reason for the high peaks in
IO for the log writer.  
  
See:

[Document:601316.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=601316.1)
LGWR Is Generating Trace file with "Warning: Log Write Time 540ms, Size
5444kb" In 10.2.0.4 Database

##### Recommendations

  * Work with the system administrator to examine what else is happening at this time that may be causing the peaks in LGWR writing to disk
  * Truss of the LGWR process when the slow down is occurring may help identify where time is going

**NOTE** : These warnings can be particularly useful for preempting potential
issues. Even if a general problem in terms of the average wait time is not
been seen, by highlighting extreme peaks of IO performance, a dba can have a
useful indicator that LGWR is encountering intermittent issues. These can then
be resolved before they cause outages or similar.

#### Check to see if redo logs are large enough

A 'log file sync' operation is performed every time the redo logs switch to
the next log to ensure that everything is written before the next log is
started. Standard recommendations are that a log switch should occur at most
once every 15 to 20 minutes. If switches occur more frequently than this, then
more 'log file sync' operations will occur meaning more waiting for individual
sessions.

  * Check the time between log file switches in alert.log  
  

Thu Jun 02 14:57:01 2011  
Thread 1 advanced to log sequence 2501 (LGWR switch)  
Current log# 5 seq# 2501 mem# 0: /opt/oracle/oradata/orcl/redo05a.log  
Current log# 5 seq# 2501 mem# 1: /opt/oracle/logs/orcl/redo05b.log  
Thu Nov 03 14:59:12 2011  
Thread 1 advanced to log sequence 2502 (LGWR switch)  
Current log# 6 seq# 2502 mem# 0: /opt/oracle/oradata/orcl/redo06a.log  
Current log# 6 seq# 2502 mem# 1: /opt/oracle/logs/orcl/redo06b.log  
Thu Nov 03 15:03:01 2011  
Thread 1 advanced to log sequence 2503 (LGWR switch)  
Current log# 4 seq# 2503 mem# 0: /opt/oracle/oradata/orcl/redo04a.log  
Current log# 4 seq# 2503 mem# 1: /opt/oracle/logs/orcl/redo04b.log

  
In the above example we see log switches every 2 to 4 minutes which is at best
5 times more frequent than the recommendations.

  * You can also check the average time for log switch in the AWR report  
  
  
  
  
The example above shows that based on the information in AWR, there are 29.98
redo logs switches per hour: ~1 switch every 2 minutes. This is higher than
the accepted value of 1 switch every 15-20 minutes and will have an affect on
the time foreground process will need to wait for 'log file sync' waits to
complete because the overhead of initiating the sync operation more than
necessary.

##### Recommendations

Increase the size of the redo logs  
  

[Document:602066.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=602066.1)
How To Maintain and/or Add Redo Logs  
[Document:779306.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=779306.1)
How To Add/Increase The Size Of Redo Log Files In Rac Environment?

### Excessive Application Commits

In this case the question to answer is "Is the Application Committing too
Frequently?".  
If it is , then the excessive commit activity can cause performance issues
since commits flush redo from the log buffer to the redo logs which can cause
waits for 'log file sync'.  
  
To identify a potential high commit rate, if the average wait time for 'log
file sync' is much higher than the average wait time for 'log file parallel
write', then this means that most of the time waiting is not due to waiting
for the redo to be written and thus slow IO is not the cause of the problem.
The surplus time is CPU activity and is most commonly contention caused by
over committing.  
  
Additionally, if the average time waited on 'log file sync' is low, but the
number of waits is high, then the application might be committing too
frequently.  
  

#### Compare the average user commits and user rollbacks to user calls

In the AWR or Statspack report, if the average user calls per commit/rollback
calculated as "user calls/(user commits+user rollbacks)" is less than 30, then
commits are happening too frequently:  
  
  
  
In the above example we see an average of 5.76 user calls per commit which is
considered high - about 5x higher that recommended.  
Rule of thumb, we should expect at least 25 user calls / commit. This of
course depends on the application.  
  

##### Recommendations

  * If there are lots of short duration transactions, see if it is possible to group transactions together so there are fewer distinct COMMIT operations. Since it is mandatory for each commit to receive confirmation that the relevant REDO is on disk, additional commits can add significantly to the overhead. Although commits can be "piggybacked" by Oracle, reducing the overall number of commits by batching transactions can have a very beneficial effect.
  * See if any of the processing can use the COMMIT NOWAIT option (be sure to understand the semantics of this before using it).
  * See if any activity can safely be done with NOLOGGING / UNRECOVERABLE options.

### Other Wait Events that may be relevant

Check the AWR report to see if there are other events related to the LGWR that
are also shown to be taking a significant amount of time as this may give a
clue as to what is causing the problem.  
Both foreground and background events should be checked.

For example the following AWR shows high waits for other foreground and
background wait events that may actually indicate a problem with the transfer
of redo logs to a remote location and result in the foreground processes
waiting on "log file sync".

### Adaptive Log File Sync

Adaptive Log File sync was introduced in 11.2. The parameter controlling this
feature, _use_adaptive_log_file_sync, is set to false by default in 11.2.0.1
and 11.2.0.2.  
In 11.2.0.3 the default is now true. When enabled, Oracle can switch between
the 2 methods:

  * Post/wait, traditional method for posting completion of writes to redo log
  * Polling, a new method where the foreground process checks if the LGWR has completed the write.

For more information on this feature see:

[Document
1541136.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1541136.1)
Waits for "log file sync" with Adaptive Polling vs Post/Wait Choice Enabled

### Redo Synch Time Overhead

The statistic, 'redo synch time overhead', included in 11.2.0.4 and 12c,
records the difference between ideal and actual, 'log file sync' times. If the
difference is small, then large 'log file sync' waits may be attributed to
outlier 'log file parallel write' times.

### Known Issues

For a list of the known defects related to 'log file sync' waits, refer to:

[Document
34592.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=34592.1#BUGS
" WAITEVENT: ") WAITEVENT: "log file sync" Reference Note

The following notes may help with known issues in specific environments:

[Document
1548261.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1548261.1)
High Waits for 'Log File Sync': Known Issue Checklist for 11.2  
  
[Document
1229104.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1229104.1)
LOG FILE SYNC WAITS SPIKES DURING RMAN ARCHIVELOG BACKUPS  
[Document
1541136.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1541136.1)
Waits for "log file sync" with Adaptive Polling vs Post/Wait Choice Enabled  
  
 **Sparc:**  
[Document
1523164.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1523164.1)
SPARC: Reducing High Waits on 'log file sync' on Oracle Solaris SPARC by
Increasing Priority of Log Writer  
[Document
1205673.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1205673.1)
'Log File Sync' problem on a Sun Server: A Typical Source for LOGFILE SYNC
Performance Problems  
[Document
10318123.8](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=10318123.8)
Bug 10318123 - Solaris: LGWR regularly stalls for 3 seconds at a time  
  
 **AIX:**  
[Document
1318709.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1318709.1)
AIX: Things To Check When Seeing Long Log File Sync Time in 11.2  
  
 **Veritas/Symantec ODM:**  
[Document
1278149.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1278149.1)
Intermittent Long 'log file sync' Waits on Veritas ODM, LGWR Posting Long
Write Times, I/O Portion of Wait Minimal  
[Document
13551402.8](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=13551402.8)
High "log file parallel write" and "log file sync" after upgrading 11.2 with
Veritas/Symantec ODM  
  
 **SUSE Linux:**  
[Document
1942134.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1942134.1)
Higher Log File Synch After OS Upgrade from SUSE Linux Enterprise Server
SLES11 SP1 to SLES11 SP3  
  
 **Exadata:  
  
** Page 11 of following pertains to not putting redo on SSD/Flash storage
except with Engineered Systems. **  
  
<http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/exadata/exadata-smart-flash-
cache-366203.pdf>  
  
**

### Other diagnostics to help analyze 'log file sync' waits?

The following script looks at important parameters involved in 'log file sync'
waits, 'log file sync' wait histogram data and related information.

[Document:1064487.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1064487.1)
Script to Collect Log File Sync Diagnostic Information (lfsdiag.sql)

### Data Guard and 'Log File Sync'

Additional time may be taken when Data Guard with synchronous (SYNC) transport
and commit WAIT defaults are configured. In the case of Data Guard, although
the above tuning steps still apply, the time for the network write and the
RFS/redo write to the standby redo logs need to be considered as well. How
'Log File Sync' applies to Data Guard is explained in the following white
paper:

[Document:387174.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=387174.1)
MAA - Data Guard Redo Transport and Network Best Practices.

Information on the setup of the Primary and Standby Databases can be gathered
using the the scripts from the following notes:

[Document:241374.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=241374.1)
Script to Collect Data Guard Primary Site Diagnostic Information  
[Document:241438.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=241438.1)
Script to Collect Data Guard Physical Standby Diagnostic Information

### Troubleshooting Other Issues

For guidance troubleshooting other performance issues see:

[Document:1377446.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?parent=DOCUMENT&sourceId=1376916.1&id=1377446.1)
Troubleshooting Performance Issues

  
  

### Community Discussions

Still have questions? Use the communities window below to search for similar
discussions or start a new discussion on this subject. (Window is the live
community not a screenshot)

Click
[here](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
to open in main browser window

[跳过导航](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#j-main)

  * [](http://www.oracle.com/)
  * [Oracle Community Directory](https://www.oracle.com/communities/index.html)
  * [Oracle Community FAQ](https://community.oracle.com/community/faq)

  * [–](https://community.oracle.com/inbox)[user12030720](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)
  *     * [Actions](https://community.oracle.com/actions)
    * [News](https://community.oracle.com/news)
    * [Inbox](https://community.oracle.com/inbox)
    * 

[My Oracle Support Community
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support)

[](https://twitter.com/myoraclesupport)

  * 搜索[ __](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

  * [ 创建](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[Go Directly To
](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

# [Database Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)在
[Oracle Database
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database)
[](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"此位置位于何处？")

[关注
](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

  * [概览](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/overview)
  * [内容](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/content)
  * [人员](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/people)
  * [子空间](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/places)

  * [操作](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)
  * [关于](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/about-place.jspa?containerID=14829&containerType=14)

####  Spaces You Follow

####
[空间](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

#### [Find
Space](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

键入以开始搜索

'

####  分类

  * [Webcasts](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/content?filterID=contentstatus%5Bpublished%5D~category%5Bwebcasts%5D)

'

####  TOP PARTICIPANTS THIS YEAR

'

####  提问 Database Tuning (MOSC)

'

View the most up-to-date high impact and urgent issues for your product.

  * [ALERT: Disable Transparent HugePages on SLES11, RHEL6, RHEL7, OL6, OL7, and UEK2 and above](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=1557478.1)
  * [Malicious Code Detected and Addressed in Certain Legacy MICROS Systems](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2165744.1)
  * [Alert: ACFS Diskgroup Corruption (ORA-15196: INVALID ASM BLOCK HEADER) Using Disks > 2TB (Engineered Systems and Non-Engineered Systems )](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2065748.1)
  * [ALERT: root.sh Fails With "CLSRSC-400" While Installing GI 12.2.0.1 on RHEL or OL with RedHat Compatible Kernel (RHCK) 7](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2284463.1)
  * [ALERT: Grid Infrastructure Fails to Start OHASD With RedHat Linux or Oracle Linux with RedHat Compatible Kernel (RHCK) Version 3.10.0-514.21.2.EL7.X86_64 through 3.10.0-514.26.2.el7](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2282371.1)
  * [Core dump - Access Violation in Client Applications After Upgrade to 9.2.0.8, 10.1.0.5 , 10.2.0.x 11.1 and the client or server is still a prior version](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=455832.1)
  * [ALERT Bug 22241601 ORA-600 [kdsgrp1] / ORA-1555 / ORA-600 [ktbdchk1: bad dscn] / ORA-600 [2663] due to Invalid Commit SCN in INDEX](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=1608167.1)
  * [Alert - Multitenant Customers: The objects created by the post-install steps of 12.1.0.2 Generic DataPump Patches Are not Shared Across All PDBS](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2175021.1)
  * [Planning Data Collections Randomly Missing WIP Jobs, On Hand, and Items](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=1440099.1)
  * [(DB30) Bug 20904530 - During ASM disk resync ORA-600 [kfdsBlk_verCb] occurs due to corruption in ASM staleness registry](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2028222.1)

**[ Oracle Trace File Analyzer (TFA)  
with Database Support Tools Bundle  
release 12.1.2.8.4 is now available to download
](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=1513912.1&parent=community&sourceId=database
"Document 1513912.1")**

##  New Feature Highlights

## Install and Run TFA without Root Privileges

Where possible you should install TFA as root. However if you are unable to
install as root then TFA can now be installed as the ORACLE_HOME owner.

When installed as non root user TFA will not run a daemon (install as root to
run the daemon) and as such will not perform automatic collections or collect
from remote hosts. On-demand collections will work, but you will be limited to
only collecting local files you have access to read.

To install without a daemon, tell TFA where to install using the -extractto
option and where to find a JRE using the -javahome option. Use the JRE already
available in the RDBMS home unless you have a later version available.

installTFALite -extractto <install_dir> -javahome <jre_home>

## SR Data Collection is 10X Easier

When you need help from Oracle Support for certain types of Database problems
they’ll ask you to run a Service Request Data Collection (SRDC). Previously
this would have involved reading many different support documents then
collecting output from many different tasks and gathering lots of different
diagnostics.

TFA can now run SRDC collections for you with a single command:

tfactl diagcollect -srdc <srdc_type>

For example the following will capture and zip everything needed to diagnose
and resolve an ORA-00600:

tfactl diagcollect -srdc ora600

The files and diagnostics collected will depend on the problem the SRDC
collection is about. TFA will prompt you for any other important information
it needs depending on the SRDC type.

TFA currently has 10 different SRDC types with more on the way:

**SRDCs for ORA errors:**

  * ora600
  * ora7445
  * ora700
  * ora4031
  * ora4030
  * ora27300
  * ora27301
  * ora27302

**SRDC for database performance problems:**

  * dbperf

**SRDC for all other types of internal database errors:**

  * internalerror

For more information about SRDCs run

tfactl diagcollect -srdc -help

## Bash no Longer Required

TFA no longer has a requirement for bash. TFA will use a different mechanism
for discovery if bash is unavailable.

If you do not use bash and your configuration does not follow ADR standards
(i.e. diag directory is not in ORACLE_BASE) it will not be automatically
discovered.

However any directories that are missed by the discovery can be easily added
using the directory add command:

tfactl directory add <dir_path>

If bash is available, TFA will use it for discovery no matter where the diag
directory is located.

For more details on TFA and to download, see [_Document
1513912.1_](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=1513912.1&parent=community&sourceId=database
"Document 1513912.1").

Documents that receive positive feedback and are often linked to Service
Requests

Documents that receive positive feedback and are often linked to Service
Requests

Information Centers related to the products sharing this community

'

####  特色内容

[ ](https://community.oracle.com/thread/3437298) |  [ Webcast Q & A:
Troubleshooting DB Performance issues with AWR
](https://community.oracle.com/thread/3437298) **3 个月 前** |  作者：[Steve Dixon-
Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Steve%20Dixon-Oracle) |  [
](https://community.oracle.com/people/Steve%20Dixon-Oracle)  
---|---|---|---  
  
'

#### 最近活动

[筛选器](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/alim+lim "alim lim")

[alim lim](https://community.oracle.com/people/alim+lim) 在 [Database Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
中[2 周 前](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4077217)
[显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示完整内容")

[taPERFORMANCE USER IO
HIGHEST](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4077217?ru=831651&sr=stream)

hi, we have problem performane user I/O highest Oracle console ( OEM ) on
oracle 11.2.0.2 how to troubleshooting ?

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 回复

**[9
条回复](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4077217)**[显示更多活动](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/Kanda-Oracle "Kanda-Oracle")

[Kanda-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Kanda-Oracle) （至 [alim
lim](https://community.oracle.com/people/alim+lim)） [6 天
前](https://community.oracle.com/message/14513496#14513496) [
显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"预览")

Hi, Refer (Doc ID 1363422.1) to get started on using AWR. NOTE: AWR may
require additional licensing requirements. Refer to note AWR Reporting -
Licensing Requirements Clarification (Doc ID…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 评论

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/ramya3250 "ramya3250")

[ramya3250](https://community.oracle.com/people/ramya3250) 在 [Database Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
中[4 周 前](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4072732)
[显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示完整内容")

[blocking sessions keeps on
coming](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4072732?ru=831651&sr=stream)

Hello, In one of our oracle database version 11g, there are blocking sessions
most of them by only one user. every time user complain and we check we will
see about 180-200 blocking sessions and…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 回复

**[14
条回复](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4072732)**[显示更多活动](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/Kanda-Oracle "Kanda-Oracle")

[Kanda-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Kanda-Oracle) （至
[ramya3250](https://community.oracle.com/people/ramya3250)） [6 天
前](https://community.oracle.com/message/14513494#14513494) [
显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"预览")

Hi, Can you see what is the blocking session is doing ? Is it executing any
sub-optimal DML for longer time and holding any objects. This helps to get
more clue. Thanks N Kandasamy

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 评论

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/robson_costa "robson_costa")

[robson_costa](https://community.oracle.com/people/robson_costa) 在 [Database
Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
中[1 周 前](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4078320)
[显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示完整内容")

[Low SQL AREA Hit
Ratio](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4078320?ru=831651&sr=stream)

Hello, I have a non-cdb database (Oarcle 12.1). I noticed that the SQL Area
Hit Ratio is around 42% and there are complaints of slowness in some systems.
I'm using Automatic Memory…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 回复

**[4
条回复](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4078320)**[显示更多活动](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/Kanda-Oracle "Kanda-Oracle")

[Kanda-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Kanda-Oracle) （至
[robson_costa](https://community.oracle.com/people/robson_costa)） [6 天
前](https://community.oracle.com/message/14513492#14513492) [
显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"预览")

You may review AWR/Statspack ; Do you see any DML is taking longer time or
executed higher. Statistics Package (STATSPACK) Guide (Doc ID 394937.1)

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 评论

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/LonelyDBA "LonelyDBA")

[LonelyDBA](https://community.oracle.com/people/LonelyDBA) 在 [Database Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
中[1 个月 前](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4072477)
[显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示完整内容")

[Oracle DB, Hibernate and Java = poor execute to parse
ratio?](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4072477?ru=773922&sr=stream)

Hi, At my current job we are using Oracle 11.2.0.4 along with Hibernate and
java. We are seeing really poor execute to parse ratios (like 0,11). I
understand that you can cache queries in…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 回复

**[12
条回复](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4072477)**[显示更多活动](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/Tedper-Oracle "Tedper-Oracle")

[Tedper-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Tedper-Oracle) （至
[LonelyDBA](https://community.oracle.com/people/LonelyDBA)） [3 周
前](https://community.oracle.com/message/14493151#14493151) [
显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"预览")

It's my pleasure. Sincerely, Ted Oracle Support Services

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 评论

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/Steve+Dixon-Oracle "Steve Dixon-
Oracle")

[Steve Dixon-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Steve+Dixon-Oracle) 在
[Database Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
中[5 年 前](https://community.oracle.com/thread/3081652)
[显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示完整内容")

[OSWatcher : Discussion about:
(Note:301137.1)](https://community.oracle.com/thread/3081652?ru=301871&sr=stream)

This thread can be used for discussion of Document 301137.1 "OSWatcher User
Guide (Includes: [Video])". Please post your comments about this article,
questions and observations about OSWatcher or…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 24
喜欢[(24)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 24 喜欢") • 回复

**[132
条回复](https://community.oracle.com/thread/3081652)**[显示更多活动](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/cedavis-Oracle "cedavis-Oracle")

[cedavis-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/cedavis-Oracle) （至
[1769878](https://community.oracle.com/people/1769878)） [3 周
前](https://community.oracle.com/message/14493014#14493014) [
显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"预览")

Yes. Please review the oswbb/docs/TheAnalyzer/oswbba_README.txt for examples
on how to do this.

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 评论

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/marceloT "marceloT")

[marceloT](https://community.oracle.com/people/marceloT) 在 [Database Tuning
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning)
中[4 周 前](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4073702)
[显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示完整内容")

[CPU CORES SOCKETS in
AWR](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4073702?ru=773922&sr=stream)

Hi, I've doing some tuning and reading several places, and i'm a bit confused.
CPU: by definition is the physical chip CORE: by definition, a CPU may have
multiple cores SOCKET: Is where you…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 0
喜欢[(0)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 0 喜欢") • 回复

**[7
条回复](https://community.oracle.com/thread/4073702)**[显示更多活动](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

[](https://community.oracle.com/people/Tedper-Oracle "Tedper-Oracle")

[Tedper-Oracle](https://community.oracle.com/people/Tedper-Oracle) （至
[marceloT](https://community.oracle.com/people/marceloT)） [4 周
前](https://community.oracle.com/message/14491275#14491275) [
显示更多](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"预览")

You're quite welcome. "In Oracle terms, one core can have several CPUs?"
Correct, at least in terms of the AWR (or Statspack) report. "So the actual
available CPU will be something…

[喜爱](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"喜爱") 显示 1
喜欢[(1)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#
"显示 1 喜欢") • 评论

[载入更多条目](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning#)

'

Give Feedback...

'

####  操作

  * [ 开始一个讨论 ](https://community.oracle.com/discussion/create!input.jspa?containerType=14&containerID=14829)
  * [ 撰写一篇文档 ](https://community.oracle.com/document/create.jspa?containerType=14&containerID=14829)
  * [ 上传一个文件 ](https://community.oracle.com/document/upload.jspa?containerType=14&containerID=14829)
  * [  查看资源 ](https://community.oracle.com/community/feeds?community=14829)

'

####  热门标签

  * [11.2.0.4](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=11.2.0.4 "已使用 6 次")
  * [11gr2](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=11gr2 "已使用 8 次")
  * [12.1.0.2](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=12.1.0.2 "已使用 5 次")
  * [awr](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=awr "已使用 2 次")
  * [awr reports](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=awr%20reports "已使用 2 次")
  * [database performance tuning](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=database%20performance%20tuning "已使用 3 次")
  * [database performance tuning 11gr2](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=database%20performance%20tuning%2011gr2 "已使用 3 次")
  * [java](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=java "已使用 3 次")
  * [oracle](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=oracle "已使用 4 次")
  * [oswatcher](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=oswatcher "已使用 2 次")
  * [rdbms](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=rdbms "已使用 3 次")
  * [row lock](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=row%20lock "已使用 2 次")
  * [sql elapsed time](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=sql%20elapsed%20time "已使用 3 次")
  * [statspack](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=statspack "已使用 3 次")
  * [tuning](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true&tags=tuning "已使用 4 次")

[查看全部](https://community.oracle.com/community/support/oracle_database/database_tuning/tags#/?recursive=true)

'

[My Oracle Support Community
(MOSC)](https://community.oracle.com/community/support)[MOS Support
Portal](https://support.oracle.com/)[About](http://www.oracle.com/us/support/mos-
community-ds-197359.pdf)

Powered by

## [Oracle Technology Network](https://community.oracle.com/docs/DOC-890454)

  * [Oracle Communities Directory](https://www.oracle.com/communities/index.html)
  * [FAQ](https://community.oracle.com/community/faq)

  * [About Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/index.html)
  * [Oracle and Sun](http://www.oracle.com/us/sun/index.html)
  * [RSS Feeds](http://www.oracle.com/us/syndication/feeds/index.html)
  * [Subscribe](http://www.oracle.com/us/syndication/subscribe/index.html)
  * [Careers](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/careers/index.html)
  * [Contact Us](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/contact/index.html)
  * [Site Maps](http://www.oracle.com/us/sitemaps/index.html)
  * [Legal Notices](http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/index.html)
  * [Terms of Use](http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/terms/index.html)
  * [Your Privacy Rights](http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html)
  * Cookie Preferences

  
  
  


---
### ATTACHMENTS
[124cccb14029b0a0d283aabed0fc9217]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-16.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-16.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-16.1))
[2e21b23aa65367eb0846adb39630f0b7]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-17.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-17.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-17.1))
[37b3b2965a8a578d13570ccf289cb8cd]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-18.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-18.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-18.1))
[3eef892b44f1ef05d46f23d87bb10759]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-19.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-19.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-19.1))
[3efb5a09ae38baae251f28518ae757db]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-20.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-20.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-20.1))
[4866ad7cfd897cc91ad5fb4a00f4f41f]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-21.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-21.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-21.1))
[68e63bae19f4c02384a1cf73945320ed]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-22.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-22.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-22.1))
[77b69470490c5b32d937665c96f48a8d]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-23.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-23.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-23.1))
[78127899c6889b98d7b44a27ddc72e50]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-24.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-24.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-24.1))
[791a5c8f1001d671f39d6a6b85750324]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-25.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-25.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-25.1))
[841b12c6795ab387c475f241ebbd0cdb]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-26.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-26.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-26.1))
[980091a375bea3d802661ae260f88e86]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-27.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-27.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-27.1))
[dfd31e7e2f19b034b60dd8686ce32a05]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-28.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-28.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-28.1))
[e4b33b59fa704fe4b77e272ddfa1ff6f]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-29.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-29.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-29.1))
[fe5e340ecb4fdb955192a2c2d7245848]: media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-30.1)
[_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-30.1)](media/_Waits_文档_ID_1376916-30.1))
---
### NOTE ATTRIBUTES
>Created Date: 2017-09-13 01:42:00  
>Last Evernote Update Date: 2018-10-01 15:59:04  
>author: YangKwong  
>source: web.clip  
>source-url: https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?_afrLoop=336719535905926  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: id=1376916.1  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: _afrWindowMode=0  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: _adf.ctrl-state=19e52h32p_4  