# 文档显示

  

* * *

  

  

In this Document

  

  

Goal

目的

  

Solution

结论

  1\. Introduction.

  引言

  2\. Export Data Pump: unloading data in "Direct Path" mode.

  数据泵导出：“直接路径”卸载数据

  3\. Export Data Pump: unloading data in "External Tables" mode.

  数据泵导出：“外部表”卸载数据

  4\. Import Data Pump: loading data in "Direct Path" mode.

  数据泵导入：直接路径加载数据

  5. Import Data Pump: loading data in "External Tables" mode.

  数据泵导入：外部表加载数据

  6\. How to enforce a specific load/unload method ?

  如何执行特定的加载/卸载方法？

  7\. Known issues.

  已知问题。

  8\. For Support: Enhancement Requests.

  支持：更高的需求。

  

References

参考文档

  

Applies to:适用于

  

Oracle Database - Enterprise Edition - Version 10.1.0.2 to 11.2.0.3 [Release
10.1 to 11.2]

oracle数据库-企业版-10.1.0.2到11.2.0.3[发行版10.1到11.2]

Information in this document applies to any platform.

本文内容适用于任何平台

***Checked for relevance on 07-MAY-2013***

***07-MAY-2013 检查相关性***

  

Goal 目标

  

Starting with Oracle10g, Oracle Data Pump can be used to move data in and out
of a database. Data Pump can make use of different methods to move the data,
and will automatically choose the fastest method. It is possible though, to
manually enforce a specific method. This document demonstrates how to specify
the method with which data will be loaded or unloaded with Data Pump.

从Oracle10g开始，Oracle数据泵被用来将数据移入或移出数据库。数据泵使用不同的方式移动数据，并且数据库将自动选择这种最快的方式。不过，也可以手动执行特定的方法。本文示范了怎样指定数据泵加载或卸载数据时的方法。

  

Solution 结论

  

1\. Introduction.

引言。

  

Data Pump can use four mechanisms to move data in and out of a database:

数据泵能使用4种机制将数据移入/移出数据库;

  

\- Data file copying;

  

      数据文件拷贝

  

\- Direct path;

  

      直接路径

  

\- External tables;

  

      外部表

  

\- Network link import.

  

      网络连接导入

  

The two most commonly used methods to move data in and out of databases with
Data Pump are the "Direct Path" method and the "External Tables" method.

两个最常用使用数据泵移入/移出数据的方法是直接路径和外部表。

  

1.1. Direct Path mode.

After data file copying, direct path is the fastest method of moving data. In
this method, the SQL layer of the database is bypassed and rows are moved to
and from the dump file with only minimal interpretation. Data Pump
automatically uses the direct path method for loading and unloading data when
the structure of a table allows it.

1.1 直接路径方法

拷贝数据文件后，直接路径是移动数据最快的方法。在这个方法中，数据库SQL层被绕过，数据行移入数据库，且只以最小的粒度-
行移入转储文件。当表结构许可时，数据泵自动使用直接路径方法加载和卸载数据。

  

1.2. External Tables mode.

If data cannot be moved in direct path mode, or if there is a situation where
parallel SQL can be used to speed up the data move even more, then the
external tables mode is used. The external table mechanism creates an external
table that maps the dump file data for the database table. The SQL engine is
then used to move the data. If possible, the APPEND hint is used on import to
speed the copying of the data into the database.

Note: When the Export NETWORK_LINK parameter is used to specify a network link
for an export operation, a variant of the external tables method is used. In
this case, data is selected from across the specified network link and
inserted into the dump file using an external table.

1.2 外部表方法

如果数据使用直接路径方式移入数据库，或者如果有条件，将使用并行SQL加速将数据移入数据库，然而可使用外部表方式。外部表机制为数据库表创建一个标识转出数据文件的外部表。SQL引擎随后被用来移动数据。如果可能，APPEND表示在导入数据时加速将数据拷入数据库。

注：当使用NETWORK_LINK参数指定导出操作的网络连接时，不同的外部表方法可以使用。在这种情况下，数据将选择指定的网络连接并使用外部表插入转储文件中。

  

1.3. Data File Copying mode.

This mode is used when a transport tablespace job is started, i.e.: the
TRANSPORT_TABLESPACES parameter is specified for an Export Data Pump job. This
is the fastest method of moving data because the data is not interpreted nor
altered during the job, and Export Data Pump is used to unload only structural
information (metadata) into the dump file.

1.3 数据文件复制方法

这种方法使用在传输表空间开启时，例如：数据泵导出作业指定TRANSPORT_TABLESPACES参数。这是移动数据最快的方式，因为在移动期间数据没有被解释也没有被改变，并且导出数据泵只被用来卸载结构化信息（元数据）移入转储文件。

  

1.4. Network Link Import mode.

This mode is used when the NETWORK_LINK parameter is specified during an
Import Data Pump job. This is the slowest of the four access methods because
this method makes use of an INSERT SELECT statement to move the data over a
database link, and reading over a network is generally slower than reading
from a disk.

1.4 网络连接导入方式

这种模式时使用NETWORK_LINK参数指定在导入数据泵的工作。这是最慢的四个访问方法,因为这个方法利用一个SELECT语句将数据插入数据库链接,通过网络和阅读通常是低于阅读从一个磁盘。

  

The "Data File Copying" and "Network Link Import" methods to move data in and
out of databases are outside the scope of this article, and therefore not
discussed any further.

“数据文件复制”和“网络链接导入”的方法将数据移入和移出数据库的超出了本文的范围,因此没有任何进一步的讨论。

  

For details about the access methods of the classic export client (exp), see:

Note:155477.1 "Parameter DIRECT: Conventional Path Export Versus Direct Path
Export"

为典型的出口客户端的访问方法的详细信息(exp),见:注:155477.1“传统路径参数直接:出口与出口直接路径”

  

2\. Export Data Pump: unloading data in "Direct Path" mode.

2。在“直接导出数据泵:卸载数据路径”模式。

  

Export Data Pump will use the "Direct Path" mode to unload data in the
following situations:

泵的出口数据将使用“直接路径”模式来卸载数据在以下情况下:

  

EXPDP will use DIRECT_PATH mode if:

  

2.1. The structure of a table allows a Direct Path unload, i.e.:

     \- The table does not have fine-grained access control enabled for SELECT.

     \- The table is not a queue table.

     \- The table does not contain one or more columns of type BFILE or opaque, or an object type containing opaque columns.

     \- The table does not contain encrypted columns.

     \- The table does not contain a column of an evolved type that needs upgrading.

     \- If the table has a column of datatype LONG or LONG RAW, then this column is the last column.

  

2.2. The parameters QUERY, SAMPLE, or REMAP_DATA parameter were not used for
the specified table in the Export Data Pump job.

  

2.3. The table or partition is relatively small (up to 250 Mb), or the table
or partition is larger, but the job cannot run in parallel because the
parameter PARALLEL was not specified (or was set to 1).

  

EXPDP会使用DIRECT_PATH模式:

  

2.1。表的结构允许直接卸载路径,例如:

——表没有激活的细粒度访问控制选择。

——表不是一个队列表。

——表不包含一个或多个列的类型BFILE或不透明,或一个包含不透明的对象类型列。

——表不包含加密列。

——一种进化的表不包含一个列类型,需要升级。

——如果数据类型的表中的一列长或原料,然后这一列是最后一列。

  

2.2。参数查询、样本或REMAP_DATA参数没有用于指定的表中导出的数据泵的工作。

  

2.3。表或分区相对较小(250 Mb),或分区表或更大,但这份工作不能并行运行,因为指定的参数并行不是(或者被设置为1)。

  

Note that with an unload of data in Direct Path mode, parallel I/O execuation
Processes (PX processes) cannot be used to unload the data in parallel
(paralllel unload is not supported in Direct Path mode).

注意,在直接路径卸载的数据模式,并行I / O execuation流程(PX流程)不能用于卸载数据并行(paralllel卸载不支持直接路径模式)。

  

3\. Export Data Pump: unloading data in "External Tables" mode.

3\. 数据泵:卸载数据在“外部表”模式。

  

Export Data Pump will use the "External Tables" mode to unload data in the
following situations:

数据泵将使用“外部表”模式来卸载数据在以下情况下:

  

EXPDP will use EXTERNAL_TABLE mode if:

  

3.1. Data cannot be unloaded in Direct Path mode, because of the structure of
the table, i.e.:

     \- Fine-grained access control for SELECT is enabled for the table.

     \- The table is a queue table.

     \- The table contains one or more columns of type BFILE or opaque, or an object type containing opaque columns.

     \- The table contains encrypted columns.

     \- The table contains a column of an evolved type that needs upgrading.

     \- The table contains a column of type LONG or LONG RAW that is not last.

  

3.2. Data could also have been unloaded in "Direct Path" mode, but the
parameters QUERY, SAMPLE, or REMAP_DATA were used for the specified table in
the Export Data Pump job.

  

3.3. Data could also have been unloaded in "Direct Path" mode, but the table
or partition is relatively large (> 250 Mb) and parallel SQL can be used to
speed up the unload even more.

  

EXPDP会使用EXTERNAL_TABLE模式:

  

3.1。数据无法直接卸载路径模式,因为表的结构,即:

——细粒度访问控制表选择启用。

——表是一个队列表。

——表包含一个或多个列的类型BFILE或不透明,或一个包含不透明的对象类型列。

——表包含加密列。

——一个进化类型的表包含一个列,需要升级。

——类型的表包含一个列长或生这不是最后一次。

  

3.2。数据也可以卸载“直接路径”模式,但参数查询,样品,或REMAP_DATA用于指定的表中导出的数据泵的工作。

  

3.3。数据也可以卸载“直接路径”模式,但表或分区相对较大(> 250 Mb)和并行SQL可以用来加快卸载更多。

  

Note that with an unload of data in External Tables mode, parallel I/O
execuation Processes (PX processes) can be used to unload the data in
parallel. In that case the Data Pump Worker process acts as the coordinator
for the PX processes. However, this does not apply when the table has a LOB
column: in that case the table parallelism will always be 1. This restriction
has been lifted in Oracle12c 12.1.0.1. See also:

注意,外部表中的数据的卸载方式,并行I / O
execuation流程(PX流程)可以用来卸载数据并行。在这种情况下,数据泵工作进程充当协调员PX流程。然而,这并不适用于表有一个LOB列:在这种情况下,表并行性永远是1。这个限制已经解除Oracle12c
12.1.0.1。参见:  

  

Bug:5943346 "PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT: PARALLELISM OF DATAPUMP JOB ON TABLE WITH
LOB COLUMN"

错误:5943346“产品增强:并行性与LOB列DATAPUMP工作表”  

  

Bug:12866324 "34708: DATA PUMP PREVENTS PARALLEL OPTS AND DPAPI LOADS THAT
SHOULD BE ALLOWED" (not a public bug), fixed in 12.1.0.1 (cannot be backported
to earlier releases)

错误:12866324“34708:数据泵防止并行选择和DPAPI加载,应该允许“(不是公共错误),固定在12.1.0.1(不能与早期版本补丁)

  

4\. Import Data Pump: loading data in "Direct Path" mode.

4.在“直接导入数据泵:加载数据路径”模式。

  

Import Data Pump will use the "Direct Path" mode to load data in the following
situations:

进口数据泵将使用“直接路径”模式加载数据在以下情况:

  

IMPDP will use DIRECT_PATH if:

  

4.1. The structure of a table allows a Direct Path load, i.e.:

     \- A global index does not exist on a multipartition table during a single-partition load. This includes object tables that are partitioned.

     \- A domain index does not exist for a LOB column.

     \- The table is not in a cluster.

     \- The table does not have BFILE columns or columns of opaque types.

     \- The table does not have VARRAY columns with an embedded opaque type.

     \- The table does not have encrypted columns.

     \- Supplemental logging is not enabled or supplemental logging is enabled and the table does not have a LOB column.

     \- The table into which data is being imported is a pre-existing table and:

        – There is not an active trigger, and:

        – The table is not partitioned, and:

        – Fine-grained access control for INSERT mode is not enabled, and:

        – A constraint other than table check does not exist, and:

        – A unique index does not exist.

  

4.2 The parameters QUERY, REMAP_DATA parameter were not used for the specified
table in the Import Data Pump job.

  

4.3. The table or partition is relatively small (up to 250 Mb), or the table
or partition is larger, but the job cannot run in parallel because the
parameter PARALLEL was not specified (or was set to 1).

  

IMPDP将使用DIRECT_PATH如果:

  

4.1。表的结构允许负载直接路径,例如:

——一个全球指数在multipartition表上不存在单分区负载。这包括对象表分区。

一个域指数为LOB列不存在。

——表不是在一个集群中。

——表没有BFILE列或列的不透明类型。

——表没有VARRAY列使用嵌入式不透明类型。

——表没有加密列。

——补充未启用日志记录或补充启用日志记录和表没有LOB列。

——数据被导入的表是一个已存在的表和:

——没有一个活跃的触发,:

表不分区,:

——插入细粒度访问控制模式不启用,并:

——表检查约束以外不存在,和:

——一个唯一索引不存在。

  

4.2参数查询,REMAP_DATA参数没有用于指定的表中导入数据泵的工作。

  

4.3。表或分区相对较小(250 Mb),或分区表或更大,但这份工作不能并行运行,因为指定的参数并行不是(或者被设置为1)。

  

5. Import Data Pump: loading data in "External Tables" mode.

5.在“外部导入数据泵:加载数据表”模式。

  

Import Data Pump will use the "External Tables" mode to load data in the
following situations:

进口数据泵将使用外部表模式加载数据在以下情况下:

  

IMPDP will use EXTERNAL_TABLE if:

  

5.1. Data cannot be loaded in Direct Path mode, because at least one of the
following conditions exists:

     \- A global index on multipartition tables exists during a single-partition load. This includes object tables that are partitioned.

     \- A domain index exists for a LOB column.

     \- A table is in a cluster.

     \- A table has BFILE columns or columns of opaque types.

     \- A table has VARRAY columns with an embedded opaque type.

     \- The table has encrypted columns.

     \- Supplemental logging is enabled and the table has at least one LOB column.

     \- The table into which data is being imported is a preexisting table and at least one of the following conditions exists:

       \- There is an active trigger

       \- The table is partitioned

       \- Fine-grained access control is in insert mode

       \- A referential integrity constraint exists

       \- A unique index exists

  

5.2. Data could also have been loaded in "Direct Path" mode, but the
parameters QUERY, or REMAP_DATA were used for the specified table in the
Import Data Pump job.

  

5.3. Data could also have been loaded in "Direct Path" mode, but the table or
partition is relatively large (> 250 Mb) and parallel SQL can be used to speed
up the load even more.

IMPDP将使用EXTERNAL_TABLE如果:

  

5.1。数据无法直接加载路径模式,因为至少存在下列条件之一:

——一个全球指数在multipartition表存在单分区负载。这包括对象表分区。

域指数存在一个LOB列。

——一个表在一个集群中。

——一个表有BFILE列或列的不透明类型。

——一个表与嵌入式VARRAY列不透明类型。

——表加密列。

——补充启用日志记录,至少有一个LOB列的表。

——数据被导入的表是一个既存表,至少存在下列条件之一:

——有一个活跃的触发器

——表分区

——细粒度访问控制是在插入模式

——参照完整性约束的存在

——一个唯一索引的存在

  

5.2。数据也可以被装载在“直接路径”模式,但参数查询,或REMAP_DATA用于指定的表中导入数据泵的工作。

  

5.3。数据也可以被装载在“直接路径”模式,但表或分区相对较大(> 250 Mb)和并行SQL可以用来加快加载更多。

  

Note that with a load of data in External Tables mode, parallel I/O execuation
Processes (PX processes) can be used to load the data in parallel. In that
case the Data Pump Worker process acts as the coordinator for the PX
processes. However, this does not apply when the table has a LOB column: in
that case the table parallelism will always be 1. This restriction has been
lifted in Oracle12c 12.1.0.1. See also:

Bug:5943346 "PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT: PARALLELISM OF DATAPUMP JOB ON TABLE WITH
LOB COLUMN"

Bug:12866324 "34708: DATA PUMP PREVENTS PARALLEL OPTS AND DPAPI LOADS THAT
SHOULD BE ALLOWED" (not a public bug), fixed in 12.1.0.1 (cannot be backported
to earlier releases)

注意,有一个负载的数据在外部表模式下,并行I / O
execuation流程(PX流程)可以用于并行加载数据。在这种情况下,数据泵工作进程充当协调员PX流程。然而,这并不适用于表有一个LOB列:在这种情况下,表并行性永远是1。这个限制已经解除Oracle12c
12.1.0.1。参见:

错误:5943346“产品增强:并行性与LOB列DATAPUMP工作表”

错误:12866324“34708:数据泵防止并行选择和DPAPI加载,应该允许“(不是公共错误),固定在12.1.0.1(不能与早期版本补丁)

  

6\. How to enforce a specific load/unload method ?

6.如何执行特定的加载/卸载方法?

  

In very specific situations, the parameter ACCESS_METHOD can be used to
enforce a specific method to unload or load the data. Example:

在非常特殊的情况下,可以使用参数ACCESS_METHOD执行一个特定的方法来加载或卸载数据。例子:

  

%expdp system/manager ... ACCESS_METHOD=DIRECT_PATH

%expdp system/manager ... ACCESS_METHOD=EXTERNAL_TABLE

  

or:

  

%impdp system/manager ... ACCESS_METHOD=DIRECT_PATH

%impdp system/manager ... ACCESS_METHOD=EXTERNAL_TABLE

  

Important Need-To-Know's when the parameter ACCESS_METHOD is specified for a
job:

重要的应是当参数指定为ACCESS_METHOD工作:

  

\- In Oracle 11gR1 and before, the parameter ACCESS_METHOD should only be used
when requested by Oracle Support.

\- Note:  
With Oracle 11gR2, the parameter ACCESS_METHOD has been documented.  
  Please refer to Oracle® Database Utilities  
  11g Release 2 (11.2)  
  E22490-05

\- If the parameter is not specified, then Data Pump will automatically choose
the best method to load or unload the data.

\- If import Data Pump cannot choose due to conflicting restrictions, an error
will be reported:  
ORA-31696: unable to export/import TABLE_DATA:"SCOTT"."EMP" using client
specified AUTOMATIC method

\- The parameter can only be specified when the Data Pump job is initially
started (i.e. the parameter cannot be specified when the job is restarted).

\- If the parameter is specified, the method of loading or unloading the data
is enforced on all tables that need to be loaded or unloaded with the job.

\- Enforcing a specific method may result in a slower performance of the
overall Data Pump job, or errors such as:

  

在Oracle 11 gr1一起之前,参数ACCESS_METHOD时才应该使用Oracle支持请求的。

注意:

与Oracle 11 gr2参数ACCESS_METHOD都有记录。

请参阅Oracle®数据库实用工具

11 g版本2(11.2)

E22490-05

如果没有指定该参数,那么数据泵会自动选择最好的方法来加载或卸载数据。

如果导入的数据泵不能选择由于矛盾的限制,将报告一个错误:

ora - 31696:无法导出/导入TABLE_DATA:“斯科特”。“EMP”使用客户指定的自动方法

指定的参数只能当数据泵的工作是最初开始(即参数不能重新启动工作时指定)。

如果指定的参数,装载或卸载的方法执行所有数据表,需要加载或卸载工作。

执行一个特定的方法可能会导致较慢的性能的总体数据泵的工作,或错误,例如:

  

...

Processing object type TABLE_EXPORT/TABLE/TABLE_DATA

ORA-31696: unable to export/import TABLE_DATA:"SCOTT"."MY_TAB" using client
specified DIRECT_PATH method

处理对象类型TABLE_EXPORT /表/ TABLE_DATA

ora - 31696:无法导出/导入TABLE_DATA:“斯科特”。“MY_TAB”使用客户端指定DIRECT_PATH方法

...

  

\- To determine which access method is used, a Worker trace file can be
created, e.g.:

\- 使用,以确定哪些访问方法,一个工人可以创建跟踪文件,例如:

  

%expdp system/manager DIRECTORY=my_dir \

DUMPFILE=expdp_s.dmp LOGFILE=expdp_s.log \

TABLES=scott.my_tab TRACE=400300

  

The Worker trace file shows the method with which the data was loaded (or
unloaded for Import Data Pump):

      跟踪文件显示了数据加载数据的方法(或数据泵卸载数据):

  

...

KUPW:14:57:14.289: 1: object: TABLE_DATA:"SCOTT"."MY_TAB"

KUPW:14:57:14.289: 1: 对象:TABLE_DATA:“SCOTT”.“MY_TAB”

KUPW:14:57:14.289: 1: TABLE_DATA:"SCOTT"."MY_TAB" external table, parallel: 1

KUPW:14:57:14.289: 1: TABLE_DATA:“SCOTT”.“MY_TAB”外部表,并行度:1

...

  

For details, see also:

      详情参见:

Note:286496.1 " Export/Import DataPump Parameter TRACE - How to Diagnose
Oracle Data Pump"

      注:286496.1  “ 导出/导入数据泵参数追踪--怎样诊断Oracle数据泵”

  

7\. Known issues.

7.已知问题

  

7.1. Bug 4722517 - Materialized view log not updated after import into
existing table

7.1. BUG 4722517 - 数据泵导入表后物化视图日志不更新

\- Defect:  Bug:4722517 "MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG NOT UPDATED AFTER IMPORT
DATAPUMP JOB INTO EXISTING TABLE"

\- 缺陷：BUG:4722517 - 数据泵导入表后物化视图日志不更新

\- Symptoms:  a materialized view is created with FAST REFRESH on a master
table; if data is imported into this master table, then these changes
(inserts) do not show up in the materialized view log

\- 症状：在主表上使用快速刷新创建物化视图后，如果主表被导入数据,那么这些变化(插入)不出现在物化视图日志中

\- Releases:  10.1.0.2.0 and higher

\- 版本:10.1.0.2.0甚至更高

\- Fixed in:  not applicable, closed as not-a-bug

\- 修订在：不适用，作为非bug关闭

\- Patched files:  not applicable

\- 补丁文件:不适用

\- Workaround:  if possible import into a temporary holding table then copy
the data with "insert as select" into the master table

\- 解决方案:如果可能的话导入临时表然后选择“插入主表”复制数据”

\- Cause:  a fast refresh does not apply changes that result from bulk load
operations on masters, such as an INSERT with the APPEND hint used by Import
Data Pump

-原因:快速刷新不适用于导致主表变化的批量加载操作,如inset附加使用APPEND指示数据泵导入

\- Trace:  not applicable, changes are not propagated

-跟踪:不适用,不传播

\- Remarks:  see also Note:340789.1 "Import Datapump (Direct Path) Does Not
Update Materialized View Logs "

\- 备注:参见注:340789.1  "数据泵导入表的作业后物化视图日志不更新"

  

7.2. Bug 5599947 - Export Data Pump is slow when table has a LOB column

7.2. BUG 5599947 - 当有LOB列时数据泵导出表缓慢

\- Defect:  Bug:5599947 "DATAPUMP EXPORT VERY SLOW"

- 缺陷: BUG:5599947“数据泵导出非常缓慢”

- Symptoms:  Export Data Pump has low performance when exporting table with LOB column

症状:泵的出口数据时的性能较低出口与LOB列的表

\- Releases:  11.1.0.6 and below

——版本:11.1.0.6以下

\- Fixed in:  not applicable, closed as not feasible to fix

-固定在:不适用,关闭不可行的修复

\- Patched files:  not applicable

补丁文件:不适用

\- Workaround:  if possible re-organize the large table with LOB column and
make it partitioned

——解决方案:如果可能重组的大桌子LOB列和分区

\- Cause:  if a table has a LOB column, and the unload or load takes place in
"External Tables" mode, then we cannot make use of parallel I/O execution
Processes (PX processes)

-原因:如果有一个LOB列的表,和卸载或负载发生在“外部表”模式,那么我们不能利用并行I / O执行过程(PX流程)

\- Trace:  not applicable

-跟踪:不适用

\- Remarks:  see also Bug:5943346 "PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT: PARALLELISM OF
DATAPUMP JOB ON TABLE WITH LOB COLUMN"

- (备注:参见错误:5943346“数据泵产品增强:含有LOB列的表的数据泵并行作业）

  

7.3. Bug 5941030 - Corrupt blocks after Import Data Pump when table has LONG /
LONG RAW column

7.3. BUG 5941030  有长/原始数据行是数据泵导入污染数据

\- Defect:  Bug:5941030 "Datapump import can produce corrupt blocks when there
is a LONG / LONG RAW"

\- 缺陷:错误:5941030“Datapump导入时可以产生腐败的块长/原始”

\- Symptoms:  Direct Path import of a LONG / LONG RAW column can create
corrupt blocks in the database. If DB_BLOCK_CHECKING is enabled then an
ORA-600 [6917] error can be signalled. If not then the corrupt block can cause
subsequent problems, like ORA-1498 (block check failure) on an analyze of the
table.

\- 症状:直接路径进口长/原始列可以在数据库中创建腐败的街区。如果启用了DB_BLOCK_CHECKING然后ora -
600[6917]可以表示错误。如果不是那么腐败阻止会导致后续问题,像ora - 1498(块检查失败)的分析表。

\- Releases:  11.1.0.6 and below

\- 版本:11.1.0.6以下

\- Fixed in:  10.2.0.5.0 and 11.1.0.7.0 and higher; for some platforms a fix
on top of 10.2.0.2.0 and on top of 10.2.0.3.0 is available with Patch:5941030

\- 修订在:10.2.0.5.0 11.1.0.7.0和更高;对于一些平台上修复10.2.0.2.0和10.2.0.3.0可用补丁:5941030

\- Patched files:  kdbl.o

\- 补丁文件:kdbl.o

\- Workaround:  if possible use the classic export and import clients to
transfer this table

\- 解决方案:如果可能的话,使用经典的导出和导入客户将这个表

\- Cause:  internal issue with column count when loading table with LONG/LONG
RAW column in Direct Path mode

\- 原因:内部问题与列数当加载表长/原始列在直接路径模式

\- Trace:  not applicable

\- 跟踪:不适用

\- Remarks:  see also Note:457128.1 "Logical Corruption Encountered After
Importing Table With Long Column Using DataPump"

\- 注:参见注:457128.1 “有长/原始数据行是数据泵导入污染数据”

  

NOTE:453895.1 - Checklist For Slow Performance Of DataPump Export (expdp) And
Import (impdp)

注: 453895.1  \- 数据泵导出/导入性能缓慢清单

NOTE:286496.1 - Export/Import DataPump Parameter TRACE - How to Diagnose
Oracle Data Pump

注:286496.1   \- 导出/导入数据泵参数追踪--怎样诊断Oracle数据泵

BUG:4722517 - MATERIALIZED VIEW LOG NOT UPDATED AFTER IMPORT DATAPUMP JOB INTO
EXISTING TABLE

BUG:4722517 - 数据泵导入表的作业后物化视图日志不更新

BUG:4727162 - PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT: ADD NEW DATAPUMP EXT TAB ACCESS METHOD
WITHOUT APPEND HINT

BUG:4727162 - 产品增强:没有附加提示添加新的数据泵EXT标签访问

BUG:5599947 - DATAPUMP EXPORT VERY SLOW

BUG:5599947 - 数据泵导出非常缓慢

  

BUG:5941030 - DATAPUMP IMPORT CAN CORRUPT DATA WHEN THERE IS A LONG / LONG RAW

BUG:5941030 - 有长/原始数据行是数据泵导入污染数据

BUG:5943346 - PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT: PARALLELISM OF DATAPUMP JOB ON TABLE WITH
LOB COLUMN

BUG:5943346 - 产品增强:含有LOB列的表的数据泵并行作业

NOTE:457128.1 - Logical Corruption Encountered After Importing Table With Long
Column Using DataPump

注:457128.1   \- 使用数据泵导入长列表遇到逻辑污染

NOTE:155477.1 - Parameter DIRECT: Conventional Path Export Versus Direct Path
Export

注:155477.1   \- 参数指导:简介路径转化为直接路径  
  
---



---
### TAGS
{exp}

---
### NOTE ATTRIBUTES
>Created Date: 2016-12-04 09:34:05  
>Last Evernote Update Date: 2016-12-04 23:26:11  
>source: web.clip  
>source-url: https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/SearchDocDisplay?_adf.ctrl-state=fariue8uw_9  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: _afrLoop=103034095723732#aref_section26  
>source-application: evernote.win32  