#  (文档 ID 292093.1)

  

|

|

 **In this Document**  

| |
[Symptoms](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=292093.1&displayIndex=6&_adf.ctrl-
state=1aujci0hbj_92&_afrLoop=82332870608683#SYMPTOM)  
---|---  
|
[Changes](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=292093.1&displayIndex=6&_adf.ctrl-
state=1aujci0hbj_92&_afrLoop=82332870608683#CHANGE)  
---|---  
|
[Cause](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=292093.1&displayIndex=6&_adf.ctrl-
state=1aujci0hbj_92&_afrLoop=82332870608683#CAUSE)  
---|---  
|
[Solution](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=292093.1&displayIndex=6&_adf.ctrl-
state=1aujci0hbj_92&_afrLoop=82332870608683#FIX)  
---|---  
  
* * *

_This document is being delivered to you via Oracle Support's Rapid Visibility
(RaV) process and therefore has not been subject to an independent technical
review. ___  
---  
  
## Applies to:

Oracle Database - Enterprise Edition - Version 9.2.0.2 to 11.1.0.7 [Release
9.2 to 11.1]  
Information in this document applies to any platform.  

## Symptoms

When a user logs into the DB (say from sqlplus) it allows to connect but the
following errors appear:  

ORA-28002: the password will expire within 7 days

The error is displayed for connection from any client. There is no problem
after the user logs in.

## Changes

The script for password management utlpwdmg.sql has been run.  
After that the the default profile has been modified to have unlimited limits
and no verify_function is imposed now.

## Cause

utlpwdmg.sql creates the verify_function and the default profile is altered as  
  

ALTER PROFILE DEFAULT LIMIT  
PASSWORD_LIFE_TIME 60  
PASSWORD_GRACE_TIME 10  
PASSWORD_REUSE_TIME 1800  
PASSWORD_REUSE_MAX UNLIMITED  
FAILED_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS 3  
PASSWORD_LOCK_TIME 1/1440  
PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION verify_function;

  
So, all the users having profile as default (dba_users.profile) will have the
password restrictions mentioned in the verify_function. Once done that, if we
reset the default profile to have all the limits unlimited and set
PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION to NULL, the restriction are still there because of
the previous settings. Resetting the profile parameters is not enough.  
  

## Solution

If we change the password of the user(s) having default profile now (with
PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION set to NULL), then the error ORA-28002 will not come.
This is as expected because of the error ORA-28002.  
  
We can change the password of the user(s) to the same existing one.

For example:

ALTER PROFILE DEFAULT LIMIT PASSWORD_VERIFY_FUNCTION null;  
alter user scott identified by tiger;  
( alter user <username> identified by <same password>; )

* * *  
  
  



---
### TAGS
{ORA-}

---
### NOTE ATTRIBUTES
>Created Date: 2017-06-27 07:28:38  
>Last Evernote Update Date: 2018-10-01 15:44:51  
>source: web.clip  
>source-url: https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=292093.1  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: displayIndex=6  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: _adf.ctrl-state=1aujci0hbj_92  
>source-url: &  
>source-url: _afrLoop=82332870608683  